[zr55.pdf, page 44]Several sensors are provided on the compressor. If one of these measurements exceeds the programmed shut-
down level, the compressor will be stopped. This will be indicated on display (1) and general alarm LED (2)
will blink.
Remedy the trouble and reset the message. See also the Status data menu.
Before remedying, consult the Safety precautions.
Shut-down warning
A shut-down warning level is a programmable level below the shut-down level.
If one of the measurements exceeds the programmed shut-down warning level, a message will appear on
display (1) and general alarm LED (2) will light up, to warn the operator that the shut-down warning level is
exceeded.
The message disappears as soon as the warning condition disappears.
Service warning
A number of service operations are grouped (called Level A, B, C, ...). Each level has a programmed time
interval. If a time interval is exceeded, a message will appear on display (1) to warn the operator to carry out
the service actions belonging to that level.
Automatic restart after voltage failure
The regulator has a built-in function to automatically restart the compressor if the voltage is restored after
voltage failure. For compressors leaving the factory, this function is made inactive. If desired, the function
can be activated. Consult the Atlas Copco Customer Centre.
If activated and provided the regulator was in the automatic operation mode, the
compressor will automatically restart if the supply voltage to the module is restored within
a programmed time period.
The power recovery time (the period within which the voltage must be restored to have an
automatic restart) can be set between 1 and 3600 seconds or to “Infinite”. If the power
recovery time is set to “Infinite”, the compressor will always restart after a voltage failure,
no matter how long it takes to restore the voltage. A restart delay can also be programmed,
allowing e.g. two compressors to be restarted one after the other.Instruction book
43
---
[125200.pdf, page 50]487.0 OTIONS
7.1 POWER OUTAGE RESTART OPTION
For customers that have interruptions in their incomingpower supply to the compressor and must maintain anuninterrupted supply of compressed air, the PowerOutage Restart Option allows an Intellisyscompressor torestart automatically 10-120 seconds (adjustable) afterincoming power is restored.
The Power Outage Restart Option is turned on by
plugging in the required option module and enabling itthru the OPTION’S set point routine.The restart timedelay, which is adjustable from 10-600 seconds, can alsobe adjusted while in the option’s set routine on theIntellisys controller.Any time power is restored to thecompressor after a power interruption, a horn located onthe side of the starter box will sound during the restarttime delay (10-600 seconds), after which the compressorwill automatically start.After starting, the compressor willreturn to the mode of operation that the compressor wasin prior to the power interruption.
This option may be factory installed or a field installation
kit is available.
7.2 SEQUENCER
The sequencer option is turned on by enabling it throughthe OPTIONS set point routine.Enabling thisoption will allow the compressor to be controlled by anexternal device, such as an ISC or sequencer, usingthe communications port (P7) on the Intellisys.
7.3 LOW AMBIENT
The lowambient option is turned on by enabling it throughthe OPTIONS set point routine.Also temperature sensor,3CTT, is added to the compressor and connected at P6-7& 8 on the Intellisys.The options set point, minimumcooler out temperature, is set to the minimum temperatureat which the unit can load.When this option is enabled,the compressor, after being started, will not load until theIntellisys reads a temperature from 3CTT at or higherthan the value of the minimum cooler out temperature setpoint.If this option is enabled without installing 3CTT,
a SENSOR FAILURE 3CTT alarm will occur.
7.4 SEPARATOR DELTA-P SOLENOID
The separator delta-p solenoid option is turned on byenabling it through the OPTIONS set point routine.When this option is enabled, the Intellisys will measurethe pressure drop across the separator element byfirst reading the wet side sump pressure.Next theIntellisys will momentarily energize solenoid that willswitch the dry side sump pressure to the sump pressuresensor (3APT).The Intellisys will then read the dryside sump pressure and subtract it from the wet sidesump pressure to measure the pressure drop across theseparator element. Do not enable this option if the
separator delta-p solenoid is not installed.This willresult in an incorrect measurement of the pressuredrop across the separator element.
7.5 SEPARATOR   DELTA-P SENSOR
The separator delta-p sensor option is turned on byenabling it through the OPTIONS set point routine.When this option is enabled, the Intellisys will measurethe pressure drop across the separator element bysubtracting the dry side sump pressure (6APT) from thewet side sump pressure (3APT). Do not enable this
option if the separator delta-p sensor is not installed.This will result in an incorrect measurement of thepressure drop across the separator element and a6APT sensor failure warning.
7.6 HIGH DUST FILTER
The high dust filter option is turned on by enabling itthrough the OPTIONS set point routine.If this optionis enabled, the Intellisys;will change its measurement ofthe inlet filter. Do not enable this option unless a high
dust filter is installed.
7.7 LEAD/LAG CYCLE LENGTH
The lead/lag cycle length option allows the Intellisys toautomatically switch the online and offline pressuresettingsto the lead or lag values after a programmednumber of hours.This option is enabled by selecting anumber of hours greater than 0 in the OPTIONS set pointroutine.
7.8 SCHEDULEDSTART/STOP
The scheduled start/stop option allows the customer toautomatically start and stop the compressor once eachday, based on the real time clock.This is an installedoption and is enabled by selecting a scheduled start andscheduled stop time.Setting the scheduled start andscheduled stop times to the same value will disable thisoption.
---
[125200.pdf, page 45]5.8 CAPACITY CONTROL (Continued)
MODULATION/ACS CONTROL (Continued)
The automatic control selector (ACS) is designed tocontinuously monitor the plant air demand and selecteither the on-off line, or the modulate control mode -whichever is most desirable at any time during anoperating day.
It allows the compressor to operate in its most efficient
mode without attendance, thereby reducing power coststo a minimum.
When the compressor operates in the on-off line control
mode, the length of time the compressor remains in the“off line”condition is an indication of the plant airdemand.Intellisys controller is sensing and awaiting asufficient line pressure decrease before signaling a shiftto the on line mode.If the “off line”time period isrelatively short, thereby indicating a high demand for air,it is preferable to shift the control system to upper rangemodulation.
The Intellisys does this, and does it automatically if the
compressor unloads 3 times within a 3 minute timeperiod.
If later, the plant demand decreases, and even under
modulate control the line pressure reaches the setting ofthe Intellisys controller and the control shifts to the “offline”mode, the time in this mode will still be monitored.Along “off line”time period indicates a low plant airdemand, indicating the desirability of operating in theon-off line mode.
The Intellisys then does this, and does it automatically if
the compressor operates unloaded for more than 3minutes.
MODULATION ONLY
If MODULATION ONLY is turned on in the set pointroutine, the unit will shift to Modulation control modeimmediately when the unit is running. The 3 cycles within3 minutes time period required for ACS to change toModulation mode is bypassed.The unit will stay inModulation mode until the UNLOAD  button is pressed orthe Mode of Operation set point is changed.
435.9 AUTOMATIC START/STOP CONTROLMany plant air systems have widely varying air demandsor large air storage capacity which allows for automaticstandby air capacity control.
During periods of low air demand, if the line pressure
rises to the upper set point, the Intellisys begins to timeout.If the line pressure remains above the lower set pointfor as long as the set time, the compressor will stop.Atthe same time the display will indicate the compressorhas shut down automatically and will restartautomatically.An automatic restart will occur when theline pressure drops to the lower set point.
The upper and lower set points and shutdown delay time
are set on the Intellisys control panel.There is a 10second delay after shutdown during which thecompressor will not restart even if line air pressure dropsbelow the lower set point.This is to allow the motor tocome to a complete stop and the Intellisys controller tocollect current data of operating condition.If line airpressure is below the lower set point at the end of 10seconds, the unit will start unless the load delay timer isset greater than 10 seconds.
Auto Restart Delay
This is the number of seconds the line pressure mustremain below the online set point before the compressorwill start if it was stopped due to an auto start/stopsituation.This timer will not delay an auto restart if thetime is set to 0.
Automatic Start/Stop Operation
When in operation, the compressor must meet twospecific timing intervals before the Intellisys controller willstop the unit in an Automatic Start/Stop situation.
For this discussion, the timers will be called timer “A”and
timer “B”.
FIRST
Timer “A”prevents the compressor from automaticallystarting more than 6 times an hour by requiring the unitto run at least 10 minutes after each automatic start.
This 10 minute run period can be loaded, unloaded or a
combination of the two and allows dissipation of heatgenerated within the motor windings at start.
---
[srl_series.pdf, page 22]Automatic recovery from power failure does not function under default setting.
It is possible to set automatic recovery from power failure by operation on the control panel.
Operate the switches on the control panel as shown below in order to automatically recover from power 
failure.
18Operation (continued)
 ● When operating in automatic power recovery, the operation of the air compressor will start
    automatically when the main power supply returns. Make sure to press the Stop switch before turning    off the main power supply when conducting maintenance. ● In the case of a power failure, turn off the main power supply. Be aware that residual pressure may
    exist even though there is not a digital display. ● When restarting the operation of the air compressor turn on the main power supply and verify the    operation control mode before pressing the Start switch.WARNING
   Digital Display    Start  Switch    Stop  Switch
Steps Digital Display
1Verify if the pressure is indicated on the digital display.
2Press the stop switch continuously for three seconds.
 "P-0" is indicated on the digital display.
3Press the start switch until "P-1" is indicated on the digital dispiay and 
power failure automatic recovery is set.
4To cancel the power failure automatic recovery, carry out steps 1 to 3 
to indicate "P-1" to "P-0" on the digital display.
5Pressure is again indicated on the digital display after three seconds.
NOTE: Even if the power failure automatic recovery has not been set, the pressure indication will
           return to the digital display after three seconds. 

---
[125200.pdf, page 24]223.6.1 Auto Restart- This setpoint is used to enable or
disable the auto restart option.
3.6.2 Auto Restart Time- This setpoint is the minimum
time period the compressor must run unloaded before
it can stop in the auto restart mode.
3.6.3 Auto Restart Delay Time- If the compressor is
stopped in auto restart, this setpoint is the number of
seconds the package discharge pressure must remainbelow the online pressure setpoint before thecompressor will restart.
3.6.4 Sequencer- This setpoint is used to enable or
disable sequencer operation.3.6.5 Remote Start/Stpop- This setpoint is used to
enable or disable the remote start/stop option.3.6.6 Power Out Restart- This setpoint is used to
enable or disable the power out restart option, if it is
installed.
3.7.7 Power Out Restart Time- If the power out
restart option is installed and enabled, this setpoint is
time period between power returning to thecompressor and the compressor starting.
3.6.8 Low Ambient- This setpoint enables or disables
the low ambient option.If the low ambient option is
enabled, sensor 3CTT must be installed in thecompressor.
3.6.9 Minimum Cooler Out Temperature- When the
low ambient option is installed, this setpoint is the
minimum temperature to which the coolant must risebefore the compressor will load.
3.6.10 Separator Delta-P Solenoid- This setpoint
enables or disables the separator delta-p solenoid
option.Enabling this option will automatically disablethe Separator Delta-P Sensor option.3.6.11 Separator Delta-P Sensor- This setpoint
enables or disables the separator delta-p sensoroption.Enabling this option will automatically disablethe Separator Delta-P Solenoid option.
3.6.12 Lead/Lag Cycle Length- This setpoint enables
the automatic cycling between lead and lag operation.
If it is set to a value greater than 0, the controller willcycle between lead and lag operation.The value of thisset point is the cycle length in real time hours.A valueof 0 will disable the automatic cycling between leadand lag.
3.6.13 Scheduled Start- If the scheduled start/stop
option is installed, this set point is the time of the day
(hour and minute) that the compressor willautomatically start.To disable this option, set it to thesame value as the scheduled stop (section 3.6.14).
3.6.14 Scheduled Stop- If the scheduled start/stop
option is installed, this setpoint is the time of the day
(hour and minute) that the compressor willautomatically stop.To disable this option, set it to thesame value as the scheduled start (section 3.6.13).
3.6.15 High Dust Filter- This option enables or
disables the high dust filter operation.3.6.16 Modbus Protocol- This option is for Ingersoll-
Rand service use only.3.6.17 Modbus Address- This feature is used with the
Modbus Protocol and is for Ingersoll-Rand service use
only.3.6 OPTIONS (CONTINUED)
---
[125200.pdf, page 47]45EXAMPLE 3
The operator selects an unloaded run time of 10 minutesin the OPTION routine and starts the compressor.Theunit runs loaded 12 minutes and then unloads.
After 12 minutes of running, the 10 minute mandatory
run-time for timer “A”has been met but the compressormust continue to run unloaded an additional 10 minutesto satisfy timer “B”.
After 10 minutes of unloaded run time, the compressor is
stopped automatically and the total run time was 22minutes.
5.10 REMOTE START/STOP
The remote start/stop option allows the operator tocontrol the compressor from a remote mounted start/stopstation.
Two different switches can be wired to the controller for
remote start/stop.(Refer to Electrical Schematic 8.1 forwiring locations).The switches are customer suppliedand must be of momentary type.The stop switchcontacts are normally closed and the start switchcontacts are normally open.When starting the compressor from the remote location,the Start button must be held depressed for
approximately 2 seconds to activate the remote start
function and then released within a maximum of 7
seconds or a Remote Start Failure alarm will occur.
WARNING!
This machine is remote
start and stop equipped.
May start or stop at
anytime.
Can cause severe injury or
death.Disconnect power beforeservicing.
Lock and tag out.See Operators / Instruction
Manual.
---
[zr55.pdf, page 59]“Low Load”
“Unconditionally Activated”
.
“Menu” “Modify”  
F1 F2 F3
• The screen shows that the low load setting is “Unconditionally Activated”. To modify this setting, press
the “Modify” key (F2); the setting wil blink.
• Use the scroll keys to change the setting.
•Press the “Program” key (F1) to program the new mode or the “Cancel” key (F3) to cancel the modification
operation.
It is possible to program three operation settings:
• “Unconditionally Activated” (standard setting): Low load option always on.
• “Automatically Activated”: Calculates the load cycle in a window of an hour. If the load cycle is lower
than 40 %, the low load option is activated. After the low load cycle reaches 60 %, the low load option
will be deactivated.
• “Disabled”: On compressors with Low load option or compressors with IND dryer, always set this option
to off.
3.16 Modifying protection settings
Control panel
Function
To modify protection settings:
• “Shutdown”, e.g. for the compressor element outlet temperature
• “Shutdown warning”, e.g. for the compressor element outlet temperature
• “Warning”, e.g. for the dew-point temperature
• “Service warning”, e.g. for the maximum pressure drop over the air filter
To check various compressor conditions, e.g. the status of the emergency stop button. Some parameters cannot
be modified.
Instruction book
58
---
[zr55.pdf, page 22]Flow diagram, ZR Full-Feature ND and ZR Full-Feature with Low Load option
Instruction book
21
---
[zt_series.pdf, page 19]Instruction book 
2920 1472 03  19 1.8 Elektronikon control system 
In general, the Elektronikon regulator has following functions: 
- automatic control of the compressor 
- protecting the compressor - monitoring components - service warning 
- automatic restart after voltage failure 
 
1.8.1 Automatic control of the compressor 
The regulator maintains the net pressure between programmable limits by aut omatically loading and 
unloading the compressor.  A number of programmable settings, e.g. the unloading and loading pressures, the minimum stop time and the maximum number of motor starts are taken into account. 
 
The regulator stops the compressor whenever possible  to reduce the power consumption and restarts 
it automatically when the net pressu re decreases.  In case the expected stopping period is too short, 
the compressor is kept running to prevent too-short standstill periods. 
 Warning 
A number of time-based automatic start/stop command s may be programmed.  Take into account that 
a start command will be executed (if programmed an d activated), even after manually stopping the 
compressor. 
 
1.8.2 Protecting the compressor 
Shut-down and motor overload 
Several temperature and pressure sensors are provided on the compressor.  If one of these 
measurements (temperature at LP element outlet, temperature at HP element outlet, intercooler 
pressure as well as oil pressure) exceeds the programmed shut -down level, the compressor will be 
stopped.  This will be indica ted on the control display. 
 
The compressor will also be stopped in case of overload of the drive motor. 
 Consult the safety precautions as mentioned in sect ion 4 and remedy the trouble.  See also the User 
manual for Elektronikon regulator, section “Status data menu”. 
 Shut-down warning 
If the regulator detects a temperature or pressure ju st below the programmed shut-down level, this will 
be indicated on the control panel to warn the oper ator before the shut-down level is reached. 
 
The message disappears as soon as the warning condition disappears.  
1.8.3 Service warning 
A number of service operations are grouped (called Le vel A, B, C, ...).  Each level has a programmed 
time interval.  If a time interval is exceeded, a me ssage will appear on display (2-Fig. 1.10) to warn the 
operator to carry out the service actions belonging to that level.  See section 4. 
 
1.8.4 Automatic restart after voltage failure 
The regulator has a built-in function to automatically  restart the compressor if the voltage is restored 
after voltage failure.  For compressors leaving the fact ory, this function is ma de inactive.  If desired, 
the function can be activated.  Consult Atlas Copco. 
 
---
[zt_series.pdf, page 20]Instruction book 
2920 1472 03  20 Warning 
If activated and provided the module was in the automatic operation mode, the compressor will 
automatically restart if the supply voltage to the module is restored within a programmed time period. 
 
The power recovery time (the period within whic h the voltage must be rest ored to have an automatic 
restart) can be set between 1 and 255 seconds or to Infinite.  If the power re covery time is set to 
Infinite, the compressor will always restart after a voltage failure, no matter how long it takes to restore 
the voltage.  A restart delay can also be programm ed, allowing e.g. two compressors to be restarted 
one after the other.  
 
1.9 Control panel 
 
 
 
Fig. 1.10  Control panel 
 
1.9.1 LEDs/buttons/keys 
 
Ref. Designation Function 
1 Start button Push button to start the compressor.  LED (8) lights up, 
indicating that the Elektronikon regulator is operative. 
2 Display Indicates messages conc erning the compressor operating 
condition, a service need or a fault. 
3 Scroll keys Keys to scroll upwards or downwards through the display. 
4 Tabulator key Key to select the parameter indicated by a horizontal arrow.  
Only the parameters followed by an arrow pointing to the right 
are accessible for modifying. 
5 Function keys Keys to control and prog ram the compressor.  See section 1.9.3. 
6 Voltage on LED Indicates that the voltage is switched on. 
7 General alarm LED Is alight if a shut-d own warning condition exists.  See section 
1.8.2. 
7 General alarm LED Blinks if a shut-down c ondition exists, if an important sensor is 
out of order or after an emergency stop.  See section 1.8.2. 
8 Automatic operation LED Indicates that the regulator is automatically controlling the 
compressor. 
9 Stop button Push button to stop the compressor.  LED (8) goes out. 
S3 Emergency stop button Push button to stop the compressor immediately in case of 
emergency.  After remedying t he trouble, unlock the button by 
pulling it out. 
 