[zr55.pdf, page 116]6 Maintenance
6.1 Maintenance warnings
Warnings
Before starting any maintenance or repairs:
•Stop the compressor. Close the air outlet valve.
•Press the test buttons on top of the electronic water drains to depressurize the air
system.
•Press the emergency stop button (S2).
•Open the isolating switch (customer's installation) to switch off the voltage to the
compressor.
Warranty-Product Liability
Use only Atlas Copco authorized genuine parts. Any damage or malfunction caused by the use of unauthorized
parts is not covered by Warranty or Product Liability.
6.2 Preventive maintenance schedule
Regular service operations
To ensure safe operation and long service life, carry out following operations at the interval (period or running
hours) which comes first. The "longer interval" checks must also include the "shorter interval" checks.
The local Atlas Copco Customer Centre may overrule the maintenance schedule depending on the
environmental and working conditions of the compressor.
Period Running hours Operation
-- At initial start Check the pressure differential of the rotor
compartments of the integrated dryer. Adjust if
necessary.
Daily 8 Check readings on display.
Daily 8 Check that condensate is discharged during
loading.
Daily -- Check oil level. Before starting, the level should be
in the middle of the sight-glass.
Weekly 50 Check that the moisture indicator of the integrated
dryer shows blue.
Monthly -- On Full-Feature ND compressors and Full-Feature
compressors with Low load option, check that air is
purged from the low load system. Clean nozzle if
necessary.
3-monthly -- Clean compressor.
3-monthly -- Check for possible leaks.
3-monthly 500 Check coolers, clean if necessary.Instruction book
115
---
[srl_series.pdf, page 27]When the maintenance or overhaul time arises, the digital display will show the following messages: 
“A.nnT”  or “A.OH”  (please see page 30 for message indication) and the maintenance alarm light will 
illuminate. Press the Screen Shift Switch and check whether the air compressor package or Scroll 
Head requires maintenance or an overhaul. The operation time of the components that are in need of 
maintenance or overhaul will flash in red.
Note: There may be instances where both air compressor package and the Scroll Head require maintenance.
● The Maintenance Alarm Light will illuminate for the air compressor package every 2,500 hours. 
    (the same for both 122 & 145 psig models).
● Maintenance Alarm Light will light for the Scroll Head at the hours detailed below:
                       122PSIG model :　9,500 hours
                       145PSIG model :　4,500 hours
     and the overhaul warning:
　　　　　　　  122PSIG model :   19,000 - 19,500 hours
　　　　　　　  145PSIG model :   9,000 - 9,500 hoursMaintenance and Inspection (continued)
 ● The inside of the air compressor may be extremely hot right after the operation. Therefore, wait at least
     30 minutes before performing the maintenance and inspection.
  ● Operating the air compressor continuously without performing maintenance and inspection may       result  in serious accidents and/or damage to the air compressor.
 ● Turn off the main power supply and vent the pressurized air in the air compressor prior to performing
     any maintenance or inspections. This will prevent electric shock and/or personal injury.
 ● The maintenance and inspection schedule is not guaranteed and is designed for normal operating
     conditions. The maintenance and inspection schedule may change, depending on the operating
     conditions. (temperature, humidity, high dust, etc.). If the operating conditions are severe, use a more     frequent maintenance and inspection time interval to prevent accidents and/or damage to the air
     compressor.
 ● If the operating conditions cause the air compressor to operate in excessive temperatures, perform
     maintenance and inspection more frequently. ● Do not disassemble the scroll head. Disassembling the scroll head may lead to air compressor failure
     and/or accidents.
WARNING
23● Be sure to perform all maintenance and overhauls according to the maintenance schedule. Contact 
    the local Hitachi distributor, in order to reset the warning.
CAUTIONMaintenance Period Notification
EX. Pressure 
IndicationMaintenance
IndicationAlternately
flashes
Overhaul Period Notification
EX. Pressure
IndicationOverhaul
IndicationAlternately
flashes

---
[zr55.pdf, page 112]Step Action
1 Daily check the display (2) for readings and messages. Normally, the main screen is shown
(see below), indicating the compressor outlet pressure, the status of the compressor and
the functions of the keys below the display.
2 Always check the display and remedy the trouble if alarm LED (3) is alight or blinks. See
“Elektronikon control system” .
3 The display will show a service message if a service plan interval has been exceeded or
if a service level for a monitored component has been exceeded. Carry out the service
actions of the indicated plans or replace the component and reset the relevant timer.
Consult your Atlas Copco Customer Centre.
See also “Preventive maintenance schedule” .
4 Regularly check the actual compressor status by pressing the down key from the main
screen.
•Before starting any maintenance or repairs, stop the compressor, wait until it has
stopped.
•Close the air outlet valve and press the test buttons on top of the electronic water
drains to depressurize the air system.
•Open the isolating switch (customer's installation) to switch off the voltage to the
compressor.
Example of the main screen
Compressor Outlet  7.0 bar  
    
Automatically Loaded   
Menu  Unload  
F1 F2 F3  
5.6 Stopping
Control panel
Instruction book
111