[cas2545.pdf, page 31]  29 
 
Compressor Terminology 
AIR/OIL 
COALESCER Performs second stage separation of oil from compressed air feeding tools.  
Sometimes referred to as the separator cartridge or purifier cartridge. 
CFM Refers to the volume of compressed air being produced expressed as cubic 
feet of air per minute. 
SPEED CONTROL Sometimes referred to as the engine speed control 
OIL SUMP The first stage of oil separation from  compressed air.  Also serves as reservoir 
area for compressor lubricant, measured in rpm (revolutions per minute). 
PSI Refers to the operating pressure the system is set up at, expressed as pounds 
per square inch. 
PRESSURE RELIEF 
VALVE A valve located on the oil sump which opens in case of excessive pressure.  
Sometimes referred to as the pop-off valve or the check valve. 
HI-TEMP SHUTDOWN 
SWITCH Works in conjunction with a power relay, sending a signal to stop the 
compressor power source in cases of high compressor oil temperature. 
 
  SECTION 3 
Operation Downloaded from www.Manualslib.com  manuals search engine  
---
[zt_series.pdf, page 47]Instruction book 
2920 1472 03  47 29. Open drain valve (8-Fig. 1.5). 
 
 
  
 
  
 
  
 
Co Oil cooler Dmo Oil drain valve, gear casing 
FC Oil filler cap 
OF Oil filter SG Oil level sight-glass 
1 Arrow, indicating correct rotation 
direction of drive motor 
 
Fig. 3.3  Oil system components 
 
 
 
 1 Start button 
2 Display 
3 Scroll keys 4 Tabulator key 
5 Function keys 6 Voltage on LED 
7 General alarm LED 
8 Automatic operation LED 9 Stop button 
S3 Emergency stop button 
 Fig. 3.4  Control panel 
 
 
---
[i125s.pdf, page 86]2200M4JE-HO-iS2-N_2014.04.  
Chapter 6 Troubleshooting  
Screw Compressor i-series 
  6-2  Symptom Direct cause Root cause Action 
02 Compressor 
stops 
immediately 
after startup.  Motor overload Motor overload that occurs just after startup is mostly 
caused not by the refrigeration cycle but by the motor. 
Refer to the instruction manual of the motor. 
03 Abnormally 
low pressure (Low suction 
pressure) Refer to direct 
cause, "Low pressure protection 
circuit activates", in 
Item 02 above. Same as left 
 Same as left  
04  Low oil 
pressure 
(Low oil 
supply pressure) 
 Oil filter element is 
clogged. 
* Pressure 
difference between outlet 
and inlet ports is 
large. Contamination of lubricant Remove clogging, and check oil for contamination/replace oil. 
Internal defects of compressor Check for oil contamination and conduct vibration/noise diagnosis. Overhaul compressor if 
necessary. 
Insufficient oil in oil 
separator. 
 Oil heater is not 
functioning, 
refrigerant 
dissolves 
excessively when 
the machine is stopped, and oil 
loss occurs at 
startup. Inspect oil heater alone, inspect relays, etc. on related circuits, and 
replace parts as necessary. 
Insufficient oil return due to 
insufficient 
refrigerant 
circulation Correct insufficient refrigerant 
circulation, and return oil from 
load-side heat exchanger.  
* Supply lubricant temporarily. 
Troubles such as 
clogging in oil 
return passage Remove causes of the trouble, 
and restore the system. 
Extensive oil leak Inspect machine room and around 
the compressor, and take 
necessary actions. 
Check if there is oil floating in cooling water system. 
→If there is, check for oil leak 
from heat transmission tube of oil cooler and take necessary 
actions. 
If oil line piping is damaged due to excessive vibration, take 
measures to reduce vibration (including measures for 
resonance vibration). 
Oil pressure 
detection function is 
defective. Failure of oil 
pressure protection 
switch, pressure 
sensor, relay, etc. Identify defective devices, investigate causes of failure and 
take necessary actions. 
Then, replace failed device(s). 
Pressure pipe is 
clogged. Remove clogging, and check oil for contamination/replace oil. 